# in vivo-like scaffold-free 3D in vitro Models of Muscular Dystrophies: The Case for Anchored Cell Sheet Engineering in Personalized Medicine

Progress in understanding the underlying mechanisms of muscle dystrophies, such as Duchenne and Myotonic dystrophies, and finding effective treatments for them has been hindered by the absence of physiologically and pathologically relevant in vitro models for biomedical research. In this study, an entirely scaffold- and biomaterial-free cell sheet engineering-based platform is used to make in vitro models using patient-specific cells. Unlike reductionist bottom-up approaches, this holistic biofabrication method, termed anchored cell sheet engineering, effectively replicated mature cell phenotypes and tissue- and disease-specific ECM deposited by the cells themselves. Robust anchored 3D muscle fibers were developed using primary cells from both healthy individuals and patients with Duchenne dystrophy and Myotonic dystrophy type 1. Through a combination of histology, immunostaining, and proteomics analysis, it was demonstrated that these models formed mature constructs that closely resembled in vivo conditions, outperforming traditional 2D cultures in their translation potential. Models of diseased tissues, analyzed through various analysis, including differential expression analysis, accurately reflected key phenotypic features of the respective diseases. Furthermore, when these models were treated with therapeutically beneficial drugs, the detailed changes in their proteomic profiles towards healthier phenotypes were documented. This novel in vitro modeling approach, compared to other 3D techniques that use exogenous scaffolding or bioink, provides a promising platform for advancing the development of muscle dystrophy models, among other conditions, and enhancing drug screening methodologies for inventing new therapeutic strategies for such complex diseases.

**Contents:**
<ins>Code1_Volcano_Plot.py</ins>: This code uses the output of multiple sample test from Perseus for generating volcano plots and creating list of up- and down-regulated proteins in each comparison. Inputs are csv files with three columns: Accession_Number, -Log(Pvalue), and	Difference.
